=pod

=head1 NAME

devctl - manage clip-lsm block device permissions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 12

=item B<devctl> [B<-uvh>] B<-c> I<arg>

=item B<devctl> [B<-uvh>] B<-f> I<conf_file>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<devctl> is a utility to load or unload device permission entries in
the clip-lsm device store.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<devctl> supports the following options:

=over 12

=item B<-c> I<arg>

Load or unload the (unique) entry specified as I<arg>. The format of
I<arg> is described in the B<ENTRY FORMAT> section. 
This option and B<-f> are exclusive. One and only one of those must be
passed on the command line.

=item B<-f> F<conf_file>

Load or unload the entries specified in the file F<conf_file>, with the 
format described in the B<ENTRY FORMAT> section.
This option and B<-c> are exclusive. One and only one of those must be
passed on the command line.

=item B<-u> 

Unload. This unload the entries specified on the command line or in the
configuration file, if they exist. The default (without this option) is
to load the specified entries.

=item B<-v>

Display version number and exit.

=item B<-h>

Display help and exit.

=back

=head1 ENTRY FORMAT

Entries passed on the command line as B<-c> I<arg> must have the following
format :

=over 12

=item I<major> I<minor> I<range> I<priority> I<perms>

=back

where I<major>, I<minor>, I<range> and I<priority> are integers specifying, 
respectively, the base major, base minor, minor range and priority (must be > 0)
for the entry, and I<perms> is a string of key-letters specifying the access 
permissions for the device range. The supported key-letters are as follows:

=over 12

=item B<r>

Read access, either through a block special file or through mounting.

=item B<w>

Write access, either through a block special file or through mounting.

=item B<x>

Execute access: mounting without the I<noexec> flag.

=item B<d>

Device access: mounting without the I<nodev> flag.

=item B<s>

Setuid access: mounting without the I<nosuid> flag.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGES

Loading and unloading device entries is only permitted when the 
I<kernel.clip.mount> sysctl is inactive (i.e. set to 1).
Loading and unloading device entries also requires that the caller 
hold the I<CAP_SYS_ADMIN> capability.

=head1 FILES

=over 12

=item F</dev/devctl>

The configuration device. Must be present for B<devctl> to work.

=item F</proc/devctl>

Allows reading the devctl entries, if the kernel was configured to
support it. Not needed for B<devctl> to work.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR 

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<verictl(8)|verictl>
 
=cut
