=pod

=head1 NAME

verictl - manage clip-lsm veriexec entries

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 12

=item B<verictl> [B<-D>] B<-lu> (B<-f> I<file> | B<-c> I<arg>)

=item B<verictl> [B<-D>] B<-xXy> B<-c> I<arg>

=item B<verictl> [B<-D>] B<-U> I<ctx>

=item B<verictl> [B<-D>] B<-dempvh>

=item B<verictl> [B<-D>] B<-L> I<level>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<verictl> configures the veriexec subsystem of the running kernel 
through ioctl calls on F</dev/veriexec>. It supports several forms of
command line, depending on the operation to perform.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 12

=item B<-c> I<arg>

Use I<arg> for an entry load/unload operation or a context 
creation/deletion/modification operation. I<arg> describes a single entry, in
a format that can be obtained with B<verictl -h>.

=item B<-d>

Disable veriexec in the current context. This sets the current level to 0, if
possible, and is equivalent to B<verictl> B<-L> I<inactive>.

=item B<-D>

Debug mode. Do not perform actual ioctl calls, but print what would be done on
the standard output.

=item B<-e>

Enable veriexec in the current context. This adds 'active' to the current level,
and is equivalent to B<verictl> B<-L> I<active>.

=item B<-f> I<file>

Use I<file> as the path to a file to read entries from, for an entry load/unload 
operation. This option cannot be specified at the same time as B<-c> I<arg>. 
I<file> may contain several entry description, one per line, in the same format as
that used for I<arg>. When several entries are specified, they are loaded or unloaded
in the top to bottom order. In that case, an error on a given entry will prevent the
following entries from being configured.

=item B<-h>

Display a help message on the standard output stream, then exit. This also provides
the supported argument formats and keywords (which can change depending on the kernel
B<verictl> was built against).

=item B<-l>

Load one or several veriexec entries, specified through either B<-c> I<arg> or B<-f> I<file>.

=item B<-L> I<level>

Set the level for a veriexec context. I<level> is a list of level keywords, separated by ':'.
The supported keywords can be obtained through B<verictl> B<-h>. Optionally, I<level> can be
prefixed by a context number, separated from the keywords by a '-'. In that case, the level
is set in the context matching that context number. Otherwise, the current context's level is 
modified.

=item B<-m>

Read the total number of allocated veriexec entries, if the kernel was configured to support
this operation.

=item B<-p>

Print the current context's level.

=item B<-u>

Unload one or several veriexec entries, specified through either B<-c> I<arg> or B<-f> I<file>.

=item B<-U> I<ctx>

Set I<ctx> as the update context.

=item B<-v>

Display the B<verictl> version and exit.

=item B<-x> 

Create the veriexec context specified as B<-c> I<arg>.

=item B<-X>

Delete the veriexec context specified as B<-c> I<arg>.

=item B<-y>

Modify the veriexec context specified as B<-c> I<arg>.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 12

=item F</dev/veriexec>

The configuration device. Must be present for B<veriexec> to work.

=item F</proc/veriexec>

Allows reading the veriexec entries, if the kernel was configured to
support it. Not needed for B<veriexec> to work.

=back

=head1 ENTRY FORMAT

Each veriexec entry must have the following format :

=over 12

=item F<file> I<ctx> I<ctx> I<flags> I<cap_eff> I<cap_prm> I<cap_inh> I<privs> I<algo> I<fingerprint>

(one entry per line in a multi-entry file for use with the B<-f> command line argument)

=back

The different fields have the following formats :

=over 12

=item F<file> 

Absolute path for the file (executable or library) this entry describes. This is relative to the root
of the namespace associated to the veriexec context for this entry.

=item I<ctx>

Veriexec context number for the entry. If I<ctx> is left as I<-1>, the current context of the B<verictl>
process manipulating the entry will be used.

=item I<flags>

Veriexec flags for this entry. Either '-' (no flags), or a string of letters, with each letter associated
with a veriexec flag (see veriexec documentation).

=item I<cap_eff> I<cap_prm> I<cap_inh>

Capabilities (respectively effective, permitted, and inheritable) for this entry. Each field is either '-'
(no capabilities), or a list of keywords, each associated with a single capability, and separated by
'|' characters. The valid keywords are the name of the capabilities, without the leading I<CAP_>, e.g. 
I<SYS_ADMIN> for I<CAP_SYS_ADMIN>.

=item I<privs>

CLSM privileges for this entry. Either '-' (no privs), or a string of letters, with each letter associated
with a CLSM privilege (see CLIP LSM documentation).

=item I<algo>

Name of the algorithm used to hash the file.

=item I<fingerprint>

Hashed fingerprint of the file.

=back

A veriexec context entry as the following format :

=over 12

=item I<ctx> I<level> I<capset> I<privset>

=back

with the following subfields :

=over 12

=item I<ctx>

Context number.

=item I<level>

Level for this context, with the same format as for the B<-L> command line argument.

=item I<capset>

Capability bounding set for this context, with the same format as the I<cap_eff>, etc. fields in
a veriexec file entry.

=item I<privset>

Privilege bounding set for this context, with the same format as the I<privs> field in a veriexec
file entry.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR 

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<devctl(8)|devctl>

=cut
